Promotion refers to methods of communicating [[marketing]] messages to existing and potential [customers](customer), usually with the intention of selling a firm's [products](product).
Examples include [[advertising]], social media marketing, and raising publicity (awareness).
Some types of promotion are paid for (such as [[mass media]] advertising) whilst some are not (such as word of mouth promotion).

There are five key objectives to any promotional strategy: [to inform](Inform%20(Promotion).md), [to persuade](Persuade%20(Promotion).md), and [to remind](Reminder%20(Promotion)) the market about the firm's goods and services, as well as to [develop brand awareness](Develop%20(Promotion)) and [attract](Attract%20(Promotion)) the attention of customers.

- Persuade: Persuasive promotion activities aim to convince or encourage customers to make a purchase, to switch from rival products and to enhance [[brand loyalty]]. To entice customers to buy their products, businesses might adopt product differentiation strategies (see Chapter 27), such as branding, to create a unique identity or to enhance the product's appeal. Successful persuasion can also generate impulse buying - when customers make a purchase without having planned to do so as there is a subconscious urge to buy the product.
- Remind: Reminder promotion refers to techniques used to retain customer awareness of, and interest in, an established product. Reminder promotional techniques are suitable for products that are in the maturity or saturation stages of their product life cycle (see Chapter 27), Market leaders such as McDonald's and Coca-Cola often use this form of promotion.
- Develop: Brand development promotional strategies help to build awareness, recognition, and loyalty to the business, its products, and its brands. It can be expensive for a business to earn a customer, so brand development strategies (see Chapter 27) are also important for retaining customers.
- Attract: Promotional activities that aim to attract the attention of customers is a vital aspect of marketing. In particular, such promotional activities focus on attracting customers to the entire product range or family brand of products offered by the business.
